Welcome to class.
Last lecture we talked about arithmetic
expressions.
And we know that the we could use the
rules of precedence to actually compute a
value for that arithmetic expression.
Now in this lecture we're going to show
that we can save that value in a variable.
We're going to assign a name to that
variable and then we can use that variable
once subsequent arithmetic expressions.
Why we want to do that?
Well there's a couple reasons.
First, if the expression was big and
involved a complicated calculation, we
might not want to actually do that again.
So saving that value in a name avoids
computing the same expression over and
over.
Second thing is, by giving this value a
name we can help the person that's looking
at your code understand what your
computation, your program is doing.
So, I'm going to walk you through a few
examples of using variables inside your
program to basically make your program
more efficient or make it more
understandable.
Okay, let's do some examples.
So let's talk about variables.
So a variable is a placeholder for storing
a value.
Reclaim and store it to avoid
re-computation, or to give a value a name
to help understand what it represents.
In Python valid variable names consist of
combinations of letters, numbers and the
underscore character.
This character right here.
The name has to start with either a letter
or a underscore.
We'll talk about when you wanna use
underscore later in the class.
The variable names are case sensitive.
Typically, for now you should start with
lowercase, then we'll tell you when you
use uppercase conventionally later in the
class.
Here's some examples of a, ninja, very
nice variable name.
Capital ninja.
Pretty good variable name also but don't
use it until later in the class.
Ninja underscore, underscore, underscore,
underscore.
Great gamer name, maybe not so great
Python name.
Illegal names.
A number.
1337.
That actually has a meaning, that is
called leet speak.
One as in L, three as in E, E, seven as a
T, leet.
You can't be a leet, ninja unfortunately,
at least not using numbers.
If you want to have a multiple word name,
variable name, it's fine.
Just connect all the words using an
underscore, that's python convention.
So, for example, a legal name is elite
ninja.
If you want that to be even more elite you
could be leet ninja.
Or if you want to quantify your ninjaness,
you can say, ninjaelite.elite.
Unfortunately, you still can't start with
the number, so this is not going to work.
How do you actually take that value and
assign it to a variable?
Well, you use equals.
This is the same thing you did in, say
middle school algebra.
You say, variable equal value.
Now notice that if you want to test to see
if two values are equal you use a double
equal.
So, single equal is assignment, double
equal is equality testing.
Now, probably the most critical thing that
you need to do whenever you want to go
through and actually choose variable names
is to think about something that's
memorable that will help you understand
what the variable represents.
So, for example, if I will go through and
I say up here, I say M.
Variable M, what does it represent?
Not sure but if I say my underscore name,
I bet you can guess what that's going to
be.
It's going to be Joe Warren.
So I can ask to print that out.
Print my name, run that.
Sure enough it's Joe Warren.
I get another variable. I can say, my age.
My age, number is 51.
Okay.
So, we've assigned some values to some
variables, what can we do with them?
Well, birthdays are fun.
I just, I actually had a birthday in
February.
So, next February, I'll have another one.
So, what could I do?
I could go through and update my age.
How would I do that?
Well, I could say something like my age is
equal to 51 plus one, then I could print
my age.
So if I run that.
It's gonna be 52, surprise, surprise.
But notice this is kind of a foolish
expression here.
Because I already had, okay, my current
age right up here in this variable my age.
So, in fact, what I should have really
said is something like, my age is = to my
age +one.
And notice, that now works no matter what
my current age.
This is always going to give me one more
than the current age.
Computations like this, where I take a
variable, I do something to it.
And I update that second variable, are
actually so frequent.
But there's a shorthand that you can use
in Python, and again, lots of other
languages.
Where you can use an operator which is
called plus =.
So the plus = operator takes the thing on
the left hand side, gets its value.
Takes this operator and applies it to the
right hand side.
And then stuffs the value back into the
left hand side.
So this does exactly the same thing.
And then it comes back with my age is
equal to 52.
Let's see, what's another one?
Let's do one more example real quick.
So I'm going to tell you a story about
another variable and this one may not be,
seem to be exactly as understandable to
begin with, but I'm going to I'm going to
have a variable called magic pill.
And I'm going to print out.
My age minus the magic pill.
So if I do that.
Come back with, well, 22.
Alright, so let's go through and comment
out this, so we get the correct age.
Get 21.
So, what is magic pill?
So, let me quick, quickly tell you the
story of the magic pill.
So, I have three children seventeen,
fifteen and twelve.
And, my fifteen year old, perhaps at one
point, that he was going to go through and
invent a pill that took 30 years off your
age.
So, he was going to give it away.
So my oldest son said, wow, you know,
that's, that's not wise, you should sell
that pill, you know, we could make a lot
of money.
So, we had a long discussion about what it
would, the value of a pill that took 30
years off your age would be.
And so we decided on $300,000.
And so, there's still some doubt from my
fifteen year old that this was actually
really worth $300,000, so he called his
granddad.
Now his granddad was.
74.
And he asked grandad, would you, would you
pay $300,000 for a pill that took 30 years
off your age.
And so grandad had an interesting
response, thought for a little bit, and he
said, I'll take two of those pills.
So, let's print out what would happen if
grandad bought two pills.
B14, I think it's a wise choice.
So, give your variable names memorable
names, give your variables memorable
names, it'll help you when you go back and
look at your program and other people go
back and look your program to understand
what's going on.
Okay.
Give me a sec.
So let's finish up with a more serious
example that does something useful.
So here I have in my comments, we'd like
to convert from Fahrenheit to Celsius.
So I've actually written down a formula
here that kind of describes the conversion
from a temperature F in Fahrenheit, to a
temperature C in Celsius.
So let's just turn that into a python
code.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna define
a value for the Fahrenheit.
So I'm gonna be a little more deliberative
here and actually give it a longer name.
I'm gonna call it Temp Fahrenheit.
And I'm gonna initialize it to say, let's
make it 32.
I think I know what the value of 32
Fahrenheit is in Celsius.
And so then what I need to do?
I want to go through my expression that
converts ten Fahrenheit into temperature
in Celsius.
So I can say ten Celsius Is equal to,
let's see, five nights.
Times, well what are we going to use, it's
going to be the temperature in Fahrenheit.
So it's tempFahrenheit.
Minus 32 and then let's print out what the
resulting temperature is.
So we'll print temp.
Now, one thing it's often good to do is,
when you type in a piece of code and
you're testing it.
Instead of just typing values, and then
kind of running it, and hoping that things
come out right.
It's often good to think, okay.
What should the answer be before you run
the code?
So I said I knew the value of 32 degrees
Fahrenheit and Celsius.
And yes, that's zero degrees Celsius,
that's freezing.
So let's see what comes out here if I run
it.
So, good.
Came out 32 Fahrenheit is zero degrees
Celsius.
Now, we also know that, let's see, 212
degrees Fahrenheit should be 100 degrees
Celsius.
So the value of writing this expression
down here is that now we can just go
through, and change the value of
Fahrenheit to be 212.
And run it again, and if we're doing well,
it comes out to be 100.
Then let's do it the other way.
Let's go through and write an expression
that converts from Celsius to Fahrenheit,
so you get one more little piece of
practice.
So I could say, Tip Celsius is equal to
zero, and then I can write my expression
that converts from Celsius to Fahrenheit.
So, temp Fahrenheit is equal to, well,
let's see what my formula says, it says
9/5, times, well, Tip Celsius.
Plus, 32.
Let's make it print out.
Print, Temp Fahrenheit So again, if the,
temperature is zero degrees Celsius, we'd
expect 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
So sure enough it worked.
Let's just do one more test real quick,
it's always good to at least do a couple
of tests when building things.
So if his temperature is 100 degrees
Celsius that's boiling so that should be
212 degrees Fahrenheit, so sure enough it
worked.
So those are a couple of examples of using
variables to organize your computations.
Now in our next lecture we talk about more
programming in Python, Scott's going to
talk about functions and he'll actually
come back and revisit this example.
I'll see you in a few more lectures.